---
title: ESF 2010!
categories: Longi
author: Luca Longinotti
date: 2010/10/01 22:24:11
updated: 2010/10/02 00:28:00
---
A day is about the time needed to recuperate from [ESF 2010][1] (ErstSemestrigenFest, translates to FreshmanParty)
at ETH Hönggerberg, so it's time to blog about it. ;)  
It was a great party! The party itself was awesome, lots and lots of people (it is the biggest student party in
Switzerland, with about 5000 attendees), several floors, lots of bars, great music and light effects, big
screens et all. There even was a corner with PlayStations since Sony was a sponsor, where you could relax by
playing using the remote controls, I actually didn't try that, but it was an interesting idea. HP also had some
kind of game set up with model car races. All in all the party was really cool, but the external organisation
(tickets, wardrobe, shuttle buses) sucked big time, interminable waits (>1 hour) for tickets and later cloaks,
they mixed up a lot of clothing too, and the buses were incredibly irregular, like having three buses at once
going one route, and no bus doing the other route for over half an hour, despite there being the same amount
of people waiting on both... Same problems as last year to be honest... Only time I saw it working was two
years ago, when they actually set up parallel ticket stands with multiple queues, same for the wardrobe, no
idea why they don't do that anymore. And no idea why they don't just have 2-3 more buses doing the rounds
and space them out evenly, it's not like there isn't capacity for it (at night the buses aren't used by
normal public transport and VSETH has more than enough money for a few more as far as I know).  
Still, big congrats for the party itself, it really was great, I'll be there again next year for sure!  
Here two videos (FLV format) I took with my phone of the two floors to give you an idea:

* [ESF 2010 Upper Floor][2]
* [ESF 2010 Main Floor][3]

While I was transferring them from the cell, I actually noticed I had [a few pics from Energy 2010 @ StreetParade][4]
still on there, so I uploaded them too. They are all from David Guetta's performance, those light-guys with the
laser pointers looked really cool. :D

[1]: http://www.esf.ethz.ch/ "ESF 2010"
[2]: /downloads/2010_ESF/video-2010-09-30-23-47-29.flv "ESF 2010 Upper Floor"
[3]: /downloads/2010_ESF/video-2010-10-01-01-05-42.flv "ESF 2010 Main Floor"
[4]: /mosaic/2010_StreetParade/ "Energy 2010 @ StreetParade"
