---
title: '27C3: Day 1'
categories: Longi, CCC
author: Luca Longinotti
date: 2010/12/28 12:12:35
updated: 2010/12/29 17:52:16
---
Hello from Berlin, where we arrived after a good 8:40 travel time on Sunday evening, 1:30 behind schedule...
At least ICE trains are very comfortable and have power outlets. ;)  
The first day of congress was a mixed experience... On one side the new ticket-presale system had the pleasant
effect of eliminating the usual Monday morning queue to get tickets, on the other hand I'm not so sure it
managed to reach the goal of keeping the participants to a manageable level, every conference room is routinely
full, every table in the hackcenter and upstairs too, and lots of people have to sit on the floors just to get
some kind of place (especially in the evening)... I really hoped that if they actually limited the number of
tickets with the presale system, they also would have based the number of them on the sum of real, available
chairs in the building (or just a little more), seems that was wishful thinking.  
I also can't really support the table reservation system for groups in the HackCenter, you get entire tables
reserved by projects that no one ever heard of, and which are not there most of the time, but leave an incredible
mess of hardware and junk to occupy the table. Which brings me to another point: looking at HackCenter tables,
one can come to only one conclusion: hackers are freaking messy! There's bottles, caps, paper, junk, half-eaten
food and everything in between lying around, people just leave it there when they go away, and it's not like
there isn't a trashcan every 10 meters or even less... Use them? If you don't find one, organize one? Just
keep the place tidy, please.  
Also the first day was plagued by infrastructure problems, LAN works well, WLAN was mostly unusable (either
you got no IP or it was so slow to be unusable, things seem to be better now), the streams initially didn't
really work (sound just disappeared at random, even over DVB-T at times), in the evening they actually worked
very well over DVB-T, over LAN I couldn't (and still can't) watch 10 minutes without it dieing and me having
to restart it.  
So let's come to the talks, which are the main reason I'm here:

* 12:30, "Code deobfuscation by optimization": didn't see it as the room was overloaded and the streams broken,
  will have to download a recording when they're available...
* I managed to follow some of the "Copyright Enforcement Vs. Freedoms" and "Von Zensursula über Censilia ..."
  talks on a big screen upstairs outside of the conference room, they both made some great points on why
  censorship and too tight copyright enforcement are bad and not helpful at all.
* 16:00, "Automatic Identification of Cryptographic Primitives in Software": this time I managed to find place
  in the conference room, but I might not have bothered, while the talk wasn't bad, I couldn't see anything
  exciting or groundbreaking in it, it all boiled down to using some heuristics and signatures to find if a
  program was using crypto code and what kind of crypto code, it's an interesting, kinda specialized way to
  analyze binaries, using more or less reliable  techniques to do it.

After that we went to eat, got a really great pizza at an Italian place on the Fernsehturm square, right
besides the Rathaus. Food really costs less here.  
After we were back at the BCC the real fun began:

* 20:30, "Desktop on the Linux": it was just a big ROFL, the speaker (while he made some very good points
  about avoiding complexity and putting lots of stuff together, which I agree with) had not really researched
  every issue in-depth, and sitting in the audience was [Lennart Poettering][1], which pretty much trashed
  him on every point he was trying to make by explaining why those decisions were made, how the implementation
  really works in-depth, and so on. It was almost sad to watch, while the speaker had some good points, he
  didn't manage to really bring any of them across without trashing and laughter ensuing.

And then the good stuff came:

* 21:30, "Recent advances in IPv6 insecurities": really great talk, the speaker was very good, you saw right
  away this guy is used to giving talks. Very interesting and understandable explanations of the security
  problems he found in the IPv6 protocol, lots of images, very good English accent. All in all a very enjoyable
  and informative talk!
* 23:00, "Adventures in analyzing Stuxnet": like the speaker would say it: "Hey dude, this was fucking awesome!",
  really. The talk by Microsoft's Bruce Dang was incredibly interesting, he explained how they handled finding
  the various zero-day bugs Stuxnet used to infect a Windows system, how they used various debugging techniques,
  binary analysis, team work with other Windows subsystem teams and so on to understand how Stuxnet actually got
  onto a Windows system and how to fix those flaws. Very informative stuff, and presented in a very relaxed and
  funny, down-to-earth way. As one spectator said at the end: "I never expected to enjoy a Microsoft talk so much!".
* Last but not least, 00:15 brought the "Pentanews Game Show", a new multi-player game show they introduced this
  year, based on "Who wants to be a millionaire?" but with IT-news related questions, quite enjoyable and funny.
  I personally like this game much more than "Hacker Jeopardy" (which will be on Day 3).

[1]: http://0pointer.de/lennart/ "Lennart Poettering"
